Introduction
Cell signaling pathways are mechanisms that participate in cell 
communication and allow cells to adapt its behaviour according to 
signals that reach the cell. These mechanisms participate in many cell 
functions, such as growth, division and death; they can also participate 
in the causes of diseases, including cancer. Therefore, creating models 
for signaling pathways can elucidate the functioning of many cell 
mechanisms. Traditionally, the identification of cell signaling pathways
involves a biological assay that quantify concentrations of chemical 
species over time in the cell followed by statistical analyses 
considering experimental data and a proposed model. Recently, a method 
was introduced to propose candidate models systematically by adding 
chemical interactions to a starting model. In this approach, 
with the definition of a score metric for models, it was possible to 
tackle the identification of cell signaling pathways as a feature 
selection problem, where the set of features is a set of chemical 
reactions extracted from KEGG. However, this method presented some 
shortcomings that impair the selected model; among them are the 
incompleteness of the information extracted from KEGG, the usage of
naive heuristics of feature selection, and the usage of an 
unsatisfactory score metric that was unable to penalize overfitting.
 
Objectives
In this work, we propose to create a new methodology that also uses
a feature selection approach to solve the problem of identification of
cell signaling pathways. We propose to use a more general search 
algorithm that allows not only adding but also removing chemical 
reactions from models; we also propose a new metric that evaluates a 
model using Bayesian inference to estimate the marginal likelihood of 
the experimental data given such model. Ultimately, after testing the 
methodology on artificial data, we propose to apply this methodology on 
identification of cell signaling pathways of the Y1 adrenocortical
tumor cell line.

Methods
To evaluate the quality of the models, we implemented an open source 
Python program called SigNetMS, which is able to create an estimative 
of the marginal likelihood of the experimental data given a model. This
estimative is created using a thermodynamic integral decomposition of 
the marginal likelihood, which allow us to get the estimative using only
samples of intermediate distributions linking prior and posterior 
distributions of model parameters. To test and implement search 
algorithms, we intend to use a C++ feature selection framework called 
featsel.

Results and Discussion
Initial results with synthetic data show that the chosen score function 
does penalize well overly complex models and can actually give higher 
scores to simpler models that can correctly simulate the dynamics 
observed in the biological experiments. The next steps include the 
implementation of the systematic model proposals, using the featsel 
framework with its current feature selection algorithms, and the
creation of a relational database of chemical reactions, gathering 
information from a myriad of public biochemical reaction repositories.
